This week, there's been a news that I believe is terrible, I'm sure that
a lot of people listening to me have the same thoughts about it.
It's that report, which says that half of vertebrates living species have been extinct in less than 40 years.
Which means, that we have very clear symptoms, very strong alerts about the fact we're
in a major phase of major living species extinction.
It is important to read the report summary to realize it.
What is causing that great extinction ?
The same thing that induce epidemic waves, cancers
and diseases of all kinds.
The cycle of water is entirely disturbed.
The majority of living species lost is in freshwater.
The very base of the cycle of water.
And why, what is happening ? What is the cause of this ? First, agriculture,
to be more precise : the current agricultural model
If we don't change our alimentation, and in particular, if we don't eliminate
meat proteins, we are doomed  to destroy everything around us.
Destroy everything ! That's the main issue.
It's not that I say it in Gala [French magazine]
Neither that, as people tell me "You're trying to take the market share of ecologists"
But, of course everyone must be ecologist ! And the market share
of ecologists, I'd rather tell you that it's not much, it's not today's topic.
Everyone must become ecologist, which means understanding the importance of this question.
It hasn't become a random question in the program, it must be a key question.
If we do not act, the whole ecosystem is going to be destroyed !
Do you understand that, guys ? It's going to be destroyed, right in front of you in the upcoming years.
It would be so easy to evade.
I'm going to sweep an argument, because I've been annoyed by it.
I was told "Yeah, you say that, but what do we do with the fact that meadows
-and I agree- that are meant for farming animals, are a very big part of agricultural lands."
Well, perfect ! I never said that we should stop eating meat, if we could we would.
I'm just saying that we must do it another way and that we must stop producing
such quantities, with so poor quality.
Because the mass of the meat that is flowing, is not the meat
of quality farming, it's the meat we take from the miserable beast that we
previously over-exploited in 1000-cows farms.
All these wretched creatures that have been mistreated, as we all know,
when they arrive at the end of the cycle, their meat is sold.
The whole chain of production needs to be changed.
Neither you or I asked for such animal farming.
We never asked that, we never asked for antibiotics stuffed milk.
We never asked for animals to be mistreated that way.
So we have the right, as citizens, to say that we want another agriculture.
We have even more right to say that we must realize the catastrophe we're
running into because of that kind of methods.
To finish that, I've been interested in reading the end of the report : at
the end, I read something that is pure Melanchonism if I believe
those that mocked me.
Here's what Arnaud Gauffier, who is the man in charge of agriculture
at the WWF (World Wildlife Fund) : " If everyone reduced by one half-portion
per day his meat consumption -don't tell me that not everyone eats meat
I know it-, while increasing his legume and cereals consumption
-and here comes the importance of expending crop food agriculture-
We could lower by 25%  greenhouse gas emissions linked to food.
Understood ? So what we are explaining in the "Avenir en commun" (rough translation :Common future) program, and
the little booklet about ecologic and peasant agriculture, that you're going to see;
these are not, like we hear saying in a contemptuous way,  a bobo delirium.
These are questions that are linked to the survival of humanity and that allow us
to start an economical and ecologically productive logic
responsible, that creates jobs and lowers nature predation.
What better could we ask ? What would be better than that ? [rethorical]
Something that ask for care, work, and that produces a quality food.